1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2. Testing 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2.
And the CETTI building, room 801. This is
September the 15th. Chances look good, maybe for a
shower. And I have the pleasure of chatting with
Charlie Wooten about his experiences here as a
member of the faculty and staff, the
administration. To begin with, to introduce
yourself to anyone who might listen to this tape or
read the transcription, describe your
background in high school and where you grew up and
what folks did and so forth before you came to work
here at A&M. Okay. I grew up in Kimmel County, which
is County Cities Junction. After a few years in
small schools like Teacup and London,
transferred when I finally got a bus system and
from the fifth grade on I went through school at
Junction riding the bus 15 or so miles each way
every day but I had a good experience with it I
graduated from there in 1943 immediately tried to
go into the service at that time I was 16 and the
decided that was a little young. So when I turned
17, in October, that year, I tried again to get into
the that time I had, I was one of five brothers. The
other four were already in service. And one of them
was flying B-24s at the time out of Tarrant Field in
Fort Worth. I'd gone up to visit with him. And at
that time, they were still in the Macho era with the
watch silk scarf around the neck and all that and I
thought that was the greatest thing I'd ever seen
So I decided I wanted to get in the Air Force I tried
to enlist in the Air Force and went through all of
the examinations and all and in the federal
building in San Antonio, they told me that Okay, I
took all the quizzes to come back in two weeks, I
believe and they let me know how I came out I did I
came back in two weeks, and they said, well, you
passed everything. Everything is just fine.
Said, you will be accepted into the Air Force. And I
wanted to go on a pilot training. I said, great.
When do I go? They said, well, we can't take you.
You're only 17. We can't take you till you're 18.
Well, I was just quite discouraged by it. So I was
walking down the hall. As I recall, it was on the
third floor of the federal building. As I was going
down the hall, I ran into this cat standing next to
an open doorway in a pair of dress blue uniforms
with all the gold stripes up and down the arm,
Marine Corps recruiting officer. He said, what's
the matter son, wouldn't they take you down there?
I said, oh no, they'll take me, but I have to wait
until I'm 18 before I can go in. He said, well, come
in here and talk to me. And I said, oh, no, I'm not
interested in that. I want to fly. He said, haven't
you ever heard of the Marine Air Force? I said,
well, really, not much. He said, we've got the
greatest air corps in the world. I said, well, it
doesn't make any difference to me whether it's the
Army Air Corps or the Marine Air Corps. I just
wanted to fly. He said, tell you what to do. You come
in here, and we'll fill out these recruiting
papers. We get through with this. I'm going to
write down on the bottom of it that it says, you know
everybody has to go through boot camp at the Marine
Corps. I said, oh yeah, I don't mind that. He said,
well, as soon as you get out of boot camp, I'm going
to write on here that they're sending you to
college training school. Fine. Sign it up. I was
almost through boot camp before I found out they
didn't even have a a pilot training program. They
got all their pilots out of the Navy. Which was
probably the best thing that ever happened to me
because I found out I got air sick and all that sort
of thing. So most things that have happened to me in
life that were discouraging at the time turned out
to be a whole lot better than they looked like they
were going to be. I spent some two and a half years in
the South Pacific and the last nine months I spent
in China. At the end of the war, we were on an LST
going back from Okinawa to Guam to refit to go into
Japan. That was the plan at the moment. On the way
back to Guam, they dropped the bomb. When we landed
in Guam, they said, okay, we're going to refit now.
Rather than going to attack Japan, we're going to
repatriate the Japanese Army out of North China.
that had been there since 1937. Hold on just a
second. How did you and your buddies hear the news
of the bomb, and what was your reaction to it? We
were on an LST, which is not the easiest thing to be
on in the South Pacific, particularly since about
that time we were not too far off the island of Truk,
which is one of their big air bases, and a typhoon
came up and started blowing us toward Truk. So the
LST has a flat tank deck on the bottom, which we all
were on cots and sleeping on it. The seas were so
rough that it would buckle those plates. And a lot
of the cots, when they went up, came down, break the
legs off of them, so we slept on the floor. It was a
very rough passage. We heard about it. At first, we
didn't believe it, because we, well, these sorts
of things come across, and they're really not so.
But then we got confirmation, and everybody was
extremely relieved and thought whatever it took,
that was the greatest thing that could have
happened because we were really not looking
forward to having to go into the Japanese
mainland, which we understood. Now, I was a
private, so I did not know the grand strategy of the
war effort. but even at that level we knew that it
was going to be a very, very tough landing if we did
go into Japan. So it, as I say, it was a great relief.
Everybody was extremely happy about it. We
couldn't wait to get to Guam and get a cold beverage
there if we could and then get everything refitted
and head out to China. So you're on Guam when you
hear the war is over? No, we were still on the way to
Guam. They signed the, on the USS Missouri, they
signed the, I said decapulation, the treaty that
ended the war. But of course, everyone really
thought that when they dropped the bomb that the
war would be over in a matter of days, which it
really was. I've forgotten, it was August the You
probably know the dates, but I don't remember
exactly what it was. But we refitted in Guam,
loaded up, and said this was the first early part of
August. So we moved real quickly and landed in,
moved into Tencent, China, and landed there on the
Ohio River on September the 1st of 19... That would
have been 1944 or 45.
Spent about nine months there. We repatriated the
Japanese army, got them all disarmed. Primarily
the concern was that when the Chinese learned that
the war was over that they would massacre the whole
army. There was not a great big number of Japanese
there because they had all the arms and so forth. We
repatriated them out of there, and by that time,
Chiang Kai-shek was coming down, Mao Tse-tung was
coming down from Siberia and coming into China,
and they were having the wars between Chiang
Kai-shek and Mao Tse-tung, and we were also put
into guarding the Shenzhen-Peking Railroad. uh
which was a vital link then in the for the
nationalist armies but uh we got uh finished well
we got pulled out of there never did get finished we
finally sort of gave up on being peacekeepers and
uh came back in uh july of that uh 46 and uh finished
up the art the marine corps tour and uh A friend and
I, in fact, our next door neighbor lived on the
adjoining ranch when I was growing up. We had a
small farm and ranch operation in Kemmel County.
And our next door neighbor named Jarvis, Jack
Jarvis, and I went to school together. He was a year
ahead of me in high school. But he was in the 11th
Marines and I was in the 3rd Corps. We were together
in China for most of those nine months. We both
decided then that what we needed to do when we got
out was go get an education. And both of us had come
out of a small country school, and we didn't know a
thing about what schools were what, which ones we
should be interested in attending. We knew that we
had to go to a state school. We couldn't afford
anything else. We knew there would be a GI bill that
would help us through. So we decided together
that, well, it came down between University of
Texas and Texas A&M. So we were in a bar one night and
decided, well, we need to make up our minds where
we're going to go. We said, OK, let's flip a coin.
Head, heads, U-T, tails, this is A&M. Tales came up
and we said, OK, there's where we're going. And so
that was that was the great decision making that we
did in great evaluation of all the options. Now,
how far in advance of coming over here was that
flip? Oh, that was about a month before we left.
That had been in about June of 46. And we got back. He
got a little ahead of me. He was already home when I
got home in August. But from August until the first
of September when school started here. And how did
you get from home over here? Did you have a car? No. I
was going to be surprised if you did. No, we neither
had a car. So we, of course, we did have a sea bag.
That's what we lived in for the last two or three
years. So we each packed our sea bags up and got out
and hitchhiked. Came down here and came into
College Station, first time we'd ever been here or
seen anything about it. We were quite, quite
surprised really to see what was here. What did you
bring in the sea bag? We brought our, primarily
our, our work clothes are from the, from the Marine
Corps, plus tried to, didn't have a suit, of
course, didn't really need a suit down here, but
Tacky pants and the shirts and shaving gear, and
that was about it. I mean, we didn't fill up a whole
sea bag full of it. Didn't have much. No radio,
no... What kind of razor? Safety razor? Yeah, a
safety razor. One of those straight-edge safety
razors. I never did get the hang of running one of
those deadly ones. What was your impression of the
campus when you first saw it? It was sort of quite
impressive, really, because we had not seen any
campus like this, so we didn't really know what to
expect. We were sort of quite confused as to where
to go and what the next step was going to be. Of
course, we overwhelmed, as a group of returning
veterans, we overwhelmed A&M. We were in the
biggest class they'd ever had here at that time. in
the class of 1950, and of course they had no place
for us to sleep. We didn't know that at the time, and
by the time we'd finally gotten through
registration and asked, all right, now where do
we, you know, what dorm do we go to and all this sort
of thing, he said, well, there'll be a truck come by
here in a little bit that'll pick you up and take you
out to the old Brown Air Force Base, and your
quarters will be out there. So we waited, and the
truck came by, a big flatbed truck. We threw our sea
bags on there, and we got off 100 miles out in the
sticks away from everywhere. And here was the old
Bryan Air Force Base that still had their tar paper
shacks up, and we were assigned to one of those tar
paper shacks. Was that at all similar to a boot
camp? We said, we have already been through
this. So let's just forget about this and go home.
Well, it was about dark by that time. It had taken
all day to get all this done. And we said, well,
we'll at least spend the night. And we did. And of
course, I'm sure A&M has affected a whole lot of
people that same way. After you spend a little time
here, your whole attitude changes about it. And
next morning, things were all right. And about as
you look back on that group of freshmen, about how
many of them were veterans, or what percentage?
TASCAL, I don't remember what percentage, but of
the freshman class, my guess would be that we were
75% of the freshman class. And I presume some of
them were a bit older than you. Some of them may have
served the whole war. Some had. Now, what I'm
talking about now is the ones that the veterans
that came back versus the ones that went directly
into the Corps. And of course, we were not in the
Corps at Bryan Air Force Base, but they had enough
capacity to handle the normal group on the Corps
students. But we had, yeah, we had a number of them
that had been in that served six years or five and
six years in the military in various places.
Describe getting... settled in how did you how did
they put you in this barracks instead of that one
how did they break you down by groups and so forth
somebody in their infinite wisdom had made up a
list and your name was on this list to go in and they
did this while we were registering you were
assigned already assigned to a barrack out at
ground air force base and so when the moon was out
they dropped us off there i forgot what the uh It
seems like those barracks would hold, oh, 18 to 24
people in it. Not great big tar paper. And they were
actually tar paper. One floor. One floor. Cots or
bunks? Bunks. They had steel bunks. They had
double. And not very large. But they did have mass
quarters for us and other facilities there.
Classrooms were not elaborate at all.
I took chemistry, which of course has a big lab
requirement to it, freshman chemistry, which I
was scared to death of coming out of a little
school. And it was out there? It was out there. All
of our classes were out there. We didn't have any
classes in here. Right. Now, you all officially
were not in the Corps? No. uh did did you pick up a
nickname quickly oh yes what were y'all uh well we
were the we were the uh well we were the vets now i
later joined the court when i got after we had
gotten through our sophomore year we had the
option then of going into the corps without having
to go through freshman and sophomore life and i had
seeing how officers lived and how privates lived.
And I said, if there's going to be another one, I
know which side I want to be on. So I joined the
Corps, and we had the EVET Air Force. We had a wing.
But back to that first year, all of you guys that
were not in the Corps were nicknamed vets. That was
not a put-down word. That was a... A compliment of
any. And there were maybe, how many of you out
there? 500? Oh, there were more than that. Oh. I'd
say there were close to 2,000 out there. It was a big
group out there. 2,000 veterans? Veterans. And
were the other? That's a guess. What about the
regular, what about the plain ordinary freshmen?
Were they out there yet? No, they were in here. They
were here. Yeah. Because later they would be.
Because they were in the Corps. Yeah. Later the
Corps freshmen would be out there, but not this
year. And all of your courses were out there. And
were these veterans only freshmen? Yes. Yeah, I
think they were all freshmen. As far as I can
recall, there were no upperclassmen that had been
a year or two before they'd done in the service. How
did you register for your classes? The two most
embarrassing things I've ever gone through is a
physical in the Marine Corps and registration at
Texas A&M. It was, you know, just... from this line
to the next line to the next line. And you forgot to
do this here, so you had to go back and do it over
again here. And it was not very well organized, the
mechanics of it, the structure of it. But you went
through and selected your classes. What were you
then planning to major in? At that time, I was an
undeclared major. And of course, A&M didn't
really require and you do commit to a major at the
beginning of the year. I finally decided after
taking a couple of chemistry courses that I'd be
better off in economics. Do you remember what you
took that first year, first semester? First
semester, I took English, took math 101, I believe
it was, took chemistry 101, I took
a general science course that they taught at that
time. I'm not sure exactly what it was called. But I
took 18 hours, which was the norm. Describe a
typical class day's routine. Got up at what hour
and did what all? Well, first thing, we had a mess
hall where we ate. And they had hours for
breakfast, so if you wanted breakfast, you had to
get there by 7 o'clock, I think. But we were all used
to that anyway from the background, so that wasn't
really a problem for anyone. And we had no
transportation. There was, in our group, in fact,
in our group, these were sort of in clusters of
those tar paper shacks. about four or five in each
one, and I think in our cluster there was one
automobile and one motorcycle. That was a total
transportation system. But we'd get up, go to
breakfast. There were not bugle calls or anything
like that in the military. It was all, you were on
your own to meet your classes, and of course they
had all classes at a different time. spread it out
as likely that on campus you take english first or
chemistry or whatever there we had it on your
schedule to meet the the requirements of the
profits you had up there and we had a couple of good
props up there uh who were some of those faculty
members you remember now uh just uh dr hedges one uh
what was the guy's name that taught chemistry he
was a He was a great coyote hunter.
Wasn't John Beckham. No, I knew John. Was Happy
Harry Hurth out there yet? No, I had a class under
him later on here at Earl Rudders and Systems in
public speaking one time. And y'all were meeting
in barracks buildings, those classes. Yeah. They
had some permanent buildings as well, you know,
the church, the chapel, and they had several
others that had been built. In fact, they had a
couple of buildings that had been built and
probably never been occupied between the time
they were built and the time they closed the base.
All right, so you went to class pretty well all
morning, ate lunch. What did you do in the
afternoon when you hadn't any time? It wasn't
scheduled. We had our own baseball games, touch
football. We organized. I don't think there was
much central organization, but each group sort of
organized. We put together groups for you
competing with the different outfits out there,
much like you did in... and would have done had you
been in here on campus, I assume. But I don't
remember too much about the extracurricular
activities. We had a swimming pool that was still
open at that time, a nice swimming pool out there.
Was there a place to see a movie? Yes, there was a
movie house and you had those at the evening and
they were, as I recall, most of them were free.
Every once in a while you had one you had to pay for,
but as I recall most of them were were free movies.
And did the GI Bill pay for all of that? Yes. As far as
you remember? As far as I remember, they paid for
all of your books, all of your tuition, and you
didn't really, and fees, and you didn't, and then I
think you got $75 a month in addition to that,
which... That paid for... That paid for
everything else that we had. And it did. It paid for
everything that we had to have. Where, how did you
travel if you wanted to go from the, okay, so there
wasn't a regular bus running from there to town or
the campus? No. There was really no, no incentive
for us to come into campus. They were sort of
operated as two separate units, as best as I could
tell from that time, but if you wanted to come to
town, you hitchhacked and it was not hard to do.
Everybody would pick you up. I mean, anybody pick
up What did you older veterans do on Saturday night
for a good time? Well, we went to the usual places
that 18, 20-year-old kids go through. There was an
Onyx out there in that neighborhood. Remember the
Onyx? No, that's before me. What did it offer? It
was a beer joint. Okay. And... Had a couple of
restaurants out there that were just set up for
that purpose and then closed up. But you had
opportunities to go, and you could always catch a
ride into town. Was there any gambling over there?
I know it wasn't legal, but was there a... Not
there. Now, there was a place over on the river.
Okay, that's what I was meaning. Yeah, that there
was gambling over there. I never had the
confidence and my skills at gambling to go into
one, to really get involved in one of those. All
right, for drinking in those days, Brazos County
supposedly offered only beer. Right. Were there
any places near there to buy, this side of the
river, to buy anything stronger? Not on this side
of the river, but we were off close to the river. So
we just went? You just had to hop across the river,
of course, and there was two joints right across
the river that had booze. All right, and if you came
into town, into Bryan, where were the attractive
places? The, well, the ones that, oh gosh, the one
out on Welburn, what is now Welburn. Oh, Uncle
Ed's. Uncle Ed's over there. They had Arnold's.
Barbecue. Barbecue place over here. There was,
the old Texan was here, by the way. The drive-in.
Drive-in. He had the Texan, and there was another
drive-in down there. There's a name I can't
remember, not too far from the Texan. But those
were the recreationals, evening recreational
spots on the weekends. Then back on the, what did
y'all call it? Was it the base or the what? Yeah, we
called it the base primarily. That was the gut of
the base. Back on the base, there was a swimming
pool, a theater. Was there a pool hall? No, no.
So... Nothing... nothing really organized other
you know sort of what those things that you can take
care of yourself except for the movement how
serious were you and your colleagues about doing
your studies very serious uh primary concern and
we had uh some pretty strict uh in in-house rules
that uh You had a study period that you didn't do a
lot of horsing around because people wanted to
study and get the heck out of here, you know, make
their grades and be sure that they didn't bust out.
And we lost a few kids. Some were very ill-prepared
coming in, even more so than I was. You studied
there in your little barracks? In the barracks,
primarily. And how often did you go home? I'd go
home three or four times a year. Again, it was
hitchhike. Did you go that first fall, you
remember? Yeah, I went home once that fall. How
long did it take to hitchhike to Kerrville, I mean
to a junction? You could get there if you left, say,
at noon on Friday. You could get there by midnight
that night, 12 hours. There's really no problem
hitchhiking. Well, I've had a pretty few
problems, but, you know, get stranded sometimes.
Share some plus or minus stories about Aggie
hitchhiking. Well, you know, you had the, here
around the campus, and we had one out there, you had
the hitchhiking benches where definite protocol
existed, and you didn't duck the line unless you
were, you know, somebody came by and was going to
your hometown, well, they'd let you go right from
get in front of the line to pick that one up because
it was so convenient. But anything headed in your
direction, generally you took that, and then you
took some various
routes of going from here to Junction. There's not
a great deal, we didn't have I-10 then, so not a
great deal of roadways going there. So Austin to
Fredericksburg to... Austin to Fredericksburg
or Kerbel. Going through Kerbel and going up that
way. Going into... junction uh generally
speaking uh i could get uh i could get to junction
and then catch a ride from there out to gate to the
ranch and walk from there on into the house now
you'd really you didn't wear an aggie uniform
because you weren't in the corps did you ever use a
sign we did at times yeah aggie sign and uh which was
very helpful but uh During those periods, of
course, now, I would hate to have to hitchhike
anywhere, but then, particularly, you was either
a veteran or a returning veteran, so everybody
really was happy to pick you up and take you with
them as far as they were going. Share the most
positive story you can remember in your own
hitchhiking and the most negative. Start with the
negative. I was going home one time. This was just
before Christmas.
This time I happened to be, catch a ride over to, uh,
going to Kerrville. I wasn't, the first one wasn't
going, but I was going in that direction. So I ended
up going to Kerrville and they let me out of
Kerrville and it was already dark. I was got a late
start and things weren't working. It started
drizzling rain, a nasty day, nasty evening. So I
found a fella that was going, I would happen to be in
a little bar restaurant thing and, uh, The guy in
there was handing the jukeboxes, collecting the
money and putting the stuff in, and he was also
helping himself to the beer every chance he got. So
he was going through Junction on the way out to
Sonora and said, you know, would you be happy for me
to go with him if you'd like? I asked him how far he
was going. He said, well, he's going all the way to
Sonora. I said, well, I was going to Junction if I
could. I didn't mind if I could. and ride with him.
Oh, yeah, I'd be happy to have him. At that time,
he'd had several. By the time he got through
stopping, before we got out of Curville, I asked
him if I could drive, and he said,